---
title: S3 Deployment
layout: en
deploy: v2
provider: s3
---

Travis CI can automatically upload your build to Amazon S3 after a successful build.

{% capture content %}
You can find your [AWS Access Keys](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#security_credential) in your Amazon Console.

> Note that deploying to S3 only adds files to your bucket, it does not remove them. If you need to remove outdated files you can do that manually in your Amazon S3 console.
{% endcapture %}

{% include deploy/providers/s3.md content=content %}

## Setting an ACL

You can set the acl of your uploaded files via the `acl` option like this:

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  acl: public_read
  # ⋮
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

See [Known options](#known-options) for valid ACL values.

In order to set `acl`, the bucket's policy must allow such operations via the
`s3:PutObjectAcl` action. An example policy might look like the following. Be
sure to set up the principal and resources according to your needs.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "AllowPublicRead",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "PRINCIPAL_ID"
      },
      "Action": [
        "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
        "s3:DeleteObject",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "s3:GetObjectAcl",
        "s3:PutObject",
        "s3:PutObjectAcl"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::BUCKET_NAME/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

Another way to set ACL for your artifacts is via a S3 bucket policy. For
example, the following policy grants the public read permission:

```json
{
  "Version": "2014-09-25",
  "Statement":[{
    "Sid":"AllowPublicRead",
        "Effect":"Allow",
      "Principal": "*",
      "Action":["s3:GetObject"],
      "Resource":["arn:aws:s3:::"YOUR BUCKET NAME"/*"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## S3 bucket regions

By default the region `us-east-1` is used when deploying to S3. If your bucket
is hosted in a different region, deploying using the default region results in
the following error.

```
The bucket you are attempting to access must be addressed using the specified endpoint.
Please send all future requests to this endpoint. (AWS::S3::Errors::PermanentRedirect)
```

This can be resolved by specifying your bucket's region using the `region`
configuration. For example, this example uses the `eu-west-1` region.

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  region: eu-west-1
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

## Deploy From Only One Folder

Often, you don't want to upload your entire project to S3. You can use the
`local_dir` option to only upload a single directory to S3. For example:

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  local_dir: ./build
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

## Deploy to a Specific S3 Folder

Often, you want to upload only to a specific S3 Folder. You can use the
`upload-dir` option to set the S3 destination folder. For example:

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  upload-dir: travis-builds
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

## Deploy to Multiple Buckets:

If you want to upload to multiple buckets, use multiple deployment configurations:

```yaml
deploy:
  - provider: s3
    access_key_id: <access_key_id>
    secret_access_key: <secret_access_key>
    bucket: "One S3 Bucket"
  - provider: s3
    access_key_id: <access_key_id>
    secret_access_key: <secret_access_key>
    bucket: "Another S3 Bucket"
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

## Conditional releases

You can deploy only when certain conditions are met.
See [Conditional Releases with `on:`](/user/deployment#conditional-releases-with-on).

## Setting the content encoding

S3 uploads can optionally set the HTTP header `Content-Encoding`. This header
allows files to be sent compressed while retaining file extensions and the
associated MIME types.

To enable this feature, add:

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  detect_encoding: true
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

If the file is compressed with `gzip` or `compress`, it will be uploaded with
the appropriate header.

## Setting the charset on the content-type

S3 can take a content-type header. Normally this doesn't include a character
set as well. If you would like to add a character set, add the
`default_text_charset` option with what you want it to be. For example:

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  default_text_charset: utf-8
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

## HTTP cache control

S3 uploads can optionally set `Cache-Control` and `Expires` HTTP headers.

Set HTTP header `Cache-Control` to suggest that the browser cache the file.
Defaults to `no-cache`. Valid options are `no-cache`, `no-store`,
`max-age=<seconds>`, `s-maxage=<seconds> no-transform`, `public`, `private`.

`Expires` sets the date and time that the cached object is no longer cacheable.
Defaults to not set. The date must be in the format `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS
-ZONE`.

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  cache_control: max-age=31536000
  expires: "2012-12-21 00:00:00 -0000"
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

### Fine-grained HTTP cache control

Optionally cache controls can be set more fine-grained on a per file extension basis.

The following example allows image files, such a .png, .jpg, or .webp, to be
cached, while .html are not cached at all.

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  cache_control: "max-age=31536000: *.jpg, *.gif, *.png, *.webp, *.css, *.js, *.ico"
  expires: "Wed, 21 Oct 2015 07:28:00 GMT: *.{jpg,gif,png,webp,css,js,ico}"
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

Or a more sophisticated example:

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  cache_control: "public, max-age=31536000: *.jpg, *.gif, *.png, *.webp, *.css, *.js, *.ico"
  expires: '$(date -u +"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S -0000" --date "next Year"): *.{jpg,gif,png,webp,css,js,ico}'
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

## Upload files starting with a dot

S3 uploads can be set to upload all files starting with a `.`

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  dot_match: true
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}


## Using S3-compatible Object Storage

You can use an S3-compatible object storage such as Digital Ocean Spaces
by setting the `endpoint` key.

```yaml
deploy:
  provider: s3
  # ⋮
  endpoint: https://nyc3.digitaloceanspaces.com
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

{% include deploy/shared.md %}
