---
title: Build Environment Update History
layout: en
permalink: /user/build-environment-updates/2016-12-01/
category: build_env_updates
date: 2016-12-01
---

## 2016-12-01

### Schedule

[2016-12-01 15:00 UTC](http://everytimezone.com/#2016-12-1,180,cn3)

### Platforms

This update applies to fully-virtualized Ubuntu Trusty and Precise.

### Added

- MySQL 5.6 (Trusty only)
- PostgreSQL 9.6 + postgis scripts packages (Trusty only)
- PostgreSQL 9.5 + postgis scripts packages (Precise only)
- APT settings to retain old configs on update (Trusty only)

### Changed

- Preinstalled Python versions to latest point releases, including CPython and
  PyPy. (Trusty only)
- Update to pyenv 1.0.0 (Trusty only)
- Update to git 2.x (Trusty only)
- Update to latest git-lfs (Trusty only)
- Update to docker-compose 1.8.1, docker 1.12.3 (Trusty only)
- Update to latest jdk\_switcher (Trusty only)

### Removed

- Preinstalled older versions of ruby from the Precise ruby stack.  All versions
  remain installable on demand via `rvm`.
- Preinstalled older versions of go on Precise ruby/default stack and all Trusty
  stacks.  All versions supported by `gimme` may be installed on demand.
- PostgreSQL 9.1 (Trusty only)
- nexus.codehaus.org Maven mirror (Precise only)

### Fixed

- Include at least one JDK and the `jdk_switcher` tool in all Trusty stacks.
- Preinstall ruby 2.2.5 for use with build caching and deployment tools.
- Force removal of `~travis/.pearrc` at the end of image baking to ensure PHP is
  less confused.

### Details

This update is a promotion of `group: edge` to `group: stable`.  We will retain
the previous `group: stable` as `group: legacy` for at least a month following
this change.  **NOTE**: When targeting Trusty, some `language:` declarations may
result in fewer features than are listed here, as they may be routed to the
"minimal" stack image.
